hi I'm gargoyle the senior editor for
strings magazine and this time we're
going to take a look at a new set of
strings from / astro / astro zebra /
Otzi strings have long been a favorite
of string players using that synthetic
core strings and now the German maker
expands a line with the addition of the
new eva / Otsego violin strings the gold
share the same exclusive synthetic core
material that / astro uses for its
obbligato viola no any paparazzi lines
but the gold set themselves apart from
the normal peroxy strings by using
different windings and construction
these medium gauge full-size strings are
available in two sets each one features
a different g-string one set winds the g
with sterling silver like we have here
today and the other set winds it with
gold / Astro says that using different
windings allows the player to choose the
best string for his or her fiddle the
gold bound G gives a rounder tone maybe
which could help soften or brighter or
harsh violin and the silver one G can
help brighten up a violin with a dark
dusky or low end players who tried both
sets set the two middle strings reminded
them of the familiar normally Bharat C
strings but the two outside strings were
revelations both players love the smooth
silky strings and commented that they
wouldn't squeak even during tricky
string crossings the gold round G was
appreciated for its warm gut like sound
in solid tuning stability the silver one
G was also appreciated with one
violinist saying that the strings rich
and full tone is exactly the kind of
deep dark sounding g string that I
strive for my violin the sets also
settle into their respective violins in
about a day which is nice and quick
however perhaps more than any other
synthetic or string strings is tested of
late these goals might be able to lay
claim to the rich gut leg tone missing
all the good attributes of gut extremely
warm with an alive rich vibrant and
responsive sound but without a lot of
the hassles associated with gut strings
like tuning stability this kind of joy
doesn't come without a cost though the /
astral Gold's cost about 81 dollars for
the silver set like we have here and 105
dollars for the set with the gold one g
while this is pretty high for violin
strings both violinists feel that the
added cost was worth the extra expense
now let's hear a brief sample of these
strings
[Music]
for your string spiders out there where
you can find these notice these strings
is that they are black and orange
windings so if you see a little
Halloween looking string those of them
for Strings magazine I'm Greg Elwell
you